README.md, before:

# 🗃️ FileArb 🗃️

[![Standard](https://img.shields.io/badge/c%2B%2B-20-blue.svg)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C%2B%2B20) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/NeilJustice/FileArb) ![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/NeilJustice/FileArb)

FileArb is a cross-platform C++ command line program for quickly creating in parallel an arbitrary number of arbitrarily large text files or binary files for performance testing file-I/O-intensive programs such as <a href="https://github.com/NeilJustice/FileRevisor">FileRevisor</a> or for performance testing the write speed of storage hardware such as USB drives and NVMe drives.

|Build Type|Build Status|
|----------|------------|
|Travis CI Linux Clang 9.0.1 and Linux GCC 9.3.0 Debug and Release|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/NeilJustice/FileArb.svg?branch=main)](https://travis-ci.com/NeilJustice/FileArb)|
|AppVeyor Windows Visual Studio 2019 x64 Debug and Release|<a href="https://ci.appveyor.com/project/NeilJustice/FileArb"><img src="https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ky25lmolb009xq0s?svg=true"/></a>|
|Code Coverage for the Travis CI Linux GCC 9.3.0 Release build|[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/NeilJustice/FileArb/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/NeilJustice/FileArb)|

FileArb is rigorously unit tested with <a href="https://github.com/NeilJustice/ZenUnitAndMetalMock">ZenUnit and MetalMock</a>.

* [FileArb Command Line Usage](#filearb-command-line-usage)
* [FileArb Program Modes](#filearb-program-modes)
   * [create-binary-file](#create-binary-file)
   * [create-binary-files](#create-binary-files)
   * [create-text-file](#create-text-file)
   * [create-text-files](#create-text-files)
* [FileArb Code Structure As It Appears In Visual Studio Code On Linux](#filearb-code-structure-as-it-appears-in-visual-studio-code-on-linux)
* [FileArb Code Structure As It Appears In Visual Studio 2019 On Windows](#filearb-code-structure-as-it-appears-in-visual-studio-2019-on-windows)
* [Linux Jenkins Jobs Which Build, Cppcheck, clang-tidy, AddressSanitize, UndefinedBehaviorSanitize and ThreadSanitize FileArb's C++ Code and SonarQube Scan FileArb's Python Code](#linux-jenkins-jobs-which-build-cppcheck-clang-tidy-addresssanitize-undefinedbehaviorsanitize-and-threadsanitize-filearbs-c++-code-and-sonarqube-scan-filearbs-python-code)
* [Windows Jenkins Jobs Which Build and Cppcheck FileArb's C++ Code and SonarQube Scan FileArb's Python Code](#windows-jenkins-jobs-which-build-and-cppcheck-filearbs-c++-code-and-sonarqube-scan-filearbs-python-code)
* [How To Build Binary filearb On Linux With Clang](#how-to-build-binary-filearb-on-linux-with-clang)
* [How To Build Executable FileArb.exe On Windows With Visual Studio 2019](#how-to-build-executable-filearbexe-on-windows-with-visual-studio-2019)
* [FileArb Roadmap](#filearb-roadmap)

## FileArb Command Line Usage

```
FileArb v0.11.0
Creates an arbitrary number of text files or binary files
containing an arbitrary number of lines, characters, or bytes.
Optional suffixes for --bytes=<BytesPerFile> argument:
b or B, kb or KB, mb or MB, gb or GB.
https://github.com/NeilJustice/FileArb

Usage:
   filearb create-binary-file
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --bytes=<NumberOfBytes>
      [--random-bytes]
   filearb create-text-file
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --lines=<LinesPerFile>
      --characters=<CharactersPerLine>
      [--random-letters]
   filearb create-binary-files
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --directories=<NumberOfDirectories>
      --files=<NumberOfFiles>
      --bytes=<BytesPerFile>
      [--random-bytes]
      [--parallel]
      [--minimal]
   filearb create-text-files
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --directories=<NumberOfDirectories>
      --files=<FilesPerDirectory>
      --lines=<LinesPerFile>
      --characters=<CharactersPerLine>
      [--random-letters]
      [--parallel]
      [--minimal]
```

## FileArb Program Modes

### create-binary-file

```
filearb create-binary-file
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --bytes=<NumberOfBytes>
      [--random-bytes]
```

Program mode `create-binary-file` creates at a specified `--target` directory a file named `binaryfile.bin` containing `--bytes` number of binary 0 bytes.

`create-binary-file` example on Linux:

![create-binary-file example on Linux](Screenshots/Linux/create-binary-file-example.png)

`create-binary-file` example on Windows:

![create-binary-file example on Windows](Screenshots/Windows/CreateBinaryFileConsoleOutput.png)

![create-binary-file Windows Explorer](Screenshots/Windows/CreateBinaryFileWindowsExplorer.png)

![create-binary-file 2GB File Properties](Screenshots/Windows/CreateBinaryFile2GBFileProperties.png)

![Binary file in HxD](Screenshots/Windows/BinaryFileInHxD.png)

`--random-bytes` can be speecified to create a binary file containing random bytes sampled from `std::random_device`.

Resulting binary file from running `filearb create-binary-file --target=C:\FileArbTesting --bytes=64 --random-bytes`:

![Random binary file in HxD](Screenshots/Windows/RandomBinaryFileInHxD.png)

### create-text-file

```
filearb create-text-file
   --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
   --lines=<LinesPerFile>
   --characters=<CharactersPerLine>
   [--random-letters]
```

Program mode `create-text-file` creates at a specified `--target` directory a file containing `--lines` number of lines each containing `--characters` number of `'0'` characters per line or random capital letter characters if `--random-letters` is specified.

`create-text-file` example on Linux:

![create-text-file example on Linux](Screenshots/Linux/create-text-file-example.png)

`create-text-file` example on Windows:

![create-text-file example on Windows](Screenshots/Windows/CreateTextFileExample.png)

### create-binary-files

```
filearb create-binary-files
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --directories=<NumberOfDirectories>
      --files=<NumberOfFiles>
      --bytes=<BytesPerFile>
      [--random-bytes]
      [--parallel]
      [--minimal]
```

FileArb program mode `create-binary-files` creates at a specified `--target` directory a specified number of `--directories` each containing a specified number of `--files` each containing `--bytes` number of bytes, either 0 bytes or `[--random-bytes]`.

![create-binary-files](Screenshots/create-binary-files.png)

### create-text-files

FileArb program mode `create-text-files` creates at a specified directory a specified number of subdirectories containing a specified number of text files each containing '0' characters.

![create-text-files](Screenshots/create-text-files.png)

## FileArb Code Structure As It Appears in Visual Studio Code On Linux

![FileArb Code Structure As It Appears In Visual Studio Code](Screenshots/Linux/FileArbCodeStructureAsItAppearsInVisualStudioCode.png)

## FileArb Code Structure As It Appears In Visual Studio 2019 On Windows

![FileArb Code Structure As It Appears In Visual Studio 2019](Screenshots/Windows/FileArbCodeStructureAsItAppearsInVisualStudio2019.png)

## Linux Jenkins Jobs Which Build, Cppcheck, clang-tidy, AddressSanitize, UndefinedBehaviorSanitize and ThreadSanitize FileArb's C++ Code and SonarQube Scan FileArb's Python Code

A Jenkins Blue Ocean build pipeline builds the following FileArb Jenkins jobs on Fedora 33 with Clang 11.0.0 and GCC 10.2.1:

![Linux FileArb Jenkins Jobs](Screenshots/Linux/LinuxJenkinsJobs.png)

## Windows Jenkins Jobs Which Build and Cppcheck FileArb's C++ Code and SonarQube Scan FileArb's Python Code

A Jenkins Blue Ocean build pipeline builds the following FileArb Jenkins jobs on Windows 10 with Visual Studio 2019:

![Windows FileArb Jenkins Jobs](Screenshots/Windows/WindowsJenkinsJobs.png)

## How To Build Binary filearb On Linux With Clang

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NeilJustice/FileArb
cd FileArb && mkdir Release && cd Release
CXX=clang++ cmake .. -GNinja -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
sudo cmake --build . --target install
```

Resulting binary `/usr/local/bin/filearb`:

![Resulting binary filearb](Screenshots/Linux/filearbBinaryOnLinux.png)

## How To Build Executable FileArb.exe On Windows With Visual Studio 2019

```powershell
git clone https://github.com/NeilJustice/FileArb
cd FileArb
cmake . -G"Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64 -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=C:\bin
cmake --build . --config Release --target install
```

Resulting executable `C:\bin\FileArb.exe`:

![Resulting executable FileArb.exe](Screenshots/Windows/FileArbDotExe.png)

## FileArb Roadmap

|Future FileArb Feature|Implementation Status As Of 3/15/2021|
|----------------------|------------------------------------|
|GitHub Actions build|Awaiting implementation|
|SonarCloud Python badge for FileArbPyUtils|Awaiting implementation|
|SonarCloud C++ badge|Awaiting implementation|
|Coverity C++ static analysis badge|Awaiting implementation|
|Automated acceptance testing|Awaiting implementation|

Commit message:

Add description to Visual Studio code sample screenshot

README.md, after:

# 🗃️ FileArb 🗃️

[![Standard](https://img.shields.io/badge/c%2B%2B-20-blue.svg)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C%2B%2B20) ![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/NeilJustice/FileArb) ![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/NeilJustice/FileArb)

FileArb is a cross-platform C++ command line program for quickly creating in parallel an arbitrary number of arbitrarily large text files or binary files for performance testing file-I/O-intensive programs such as <a href="https://github.com/NeilJustice/FileRevisor">FileRevisor</a> or for performance testing the write speed of storage hardware such as USB drives and NVMe drives.

|Build Type|Build Status|
|----------|------------|
|Travis CI Linux Clang 9.0.1 and Linux GCC 9.3.0 Debug and Release|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/NeilJustice/FileArb.svg?branch=main)](https://travis-ci.com/NeilJustice/FileArb)|
|AppVeyor Windows Visual Studio 2019 x64 Debug and Release|<a href="https://ci.appveyor.com/project/NeilJustice/FileArb"><img src="https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ky25lmolb009xq0s?svg=true"/></a>|
|Code Coverage for the Travis CI Linux GCC 9.3.0 Release build|[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/NeilJustice/FileArb/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/NeilJustice/FileArb)|

FileArb is rigorously unit tested with <a href="https://github.com/NeilJustice/ZenUnitAndMetalMock">ZenUnit and MetalMock</a>.

* [FileArb Command Line Usage](#filearb-command-line-usage)
* [FileArb Program Modes](#filearb-program-modes)
   * [create-binary-file](#create-binary-file)
   * [create-binary-files](#create-binary-files)
   * [create-text-file](#create-text-file)
   * [create-text-files](#create-text-files)
* [FileArb Code Structure As It Appears In Visual Studio Code On Linux](#filearb-code-structure-as-it-appears-in-visual-studio-code-on-linux)
* [FileArb Code Structure As It Appears In Visual Studio 2019 On Windows](#filearb-code-structure-as-it-appears-in-visual-studio-2019-on-windows)
* [Linux Jenkins Jobs Which Build, Cppcheck, clang-tidy, AddressSanitize, UndefinedBehaviorSanitize and ThreadSanitize FileArb's C++ Code and SonarQube Scan FileArb's Python Code](#linux-jenkins-jobs-which-build-cppcheck-clang-tidy-addresssanitize-undefinedbehaviorsanitize-and-threadsanitize-filearbs-c++-code-and-sonarqube-scan-filearbs-python-code)
* [Windows Jenkins Jobs Which Build and Cppcheck FileArb's C++ Code and SonarQube Scan FileArb's Python Code](#windows-jenkins-jobs-which-build-and-cppcheck-filearbs-c++-code-and-sonarqube-scan-filearbs-python-code)
* [How To Build Binary filearb On Linux With Clang](#how-to-build-binary-filearb-on-linux-with-clang)
* [How To Build Executable FileArb.exe On Windows With Visual Studio 2019](#how-to-build-executable-filearbexe-on-windows-with-visual-studio-2019)
* [FileArb Roadmap](#filearb-roadmap)

## FileArb Command Line Usage

```
FileArb v0.11.0
Creates an arbitrary number of text files or binary files
containing an arbitrary number of lines, characters, or bytes.
Optional suffixes for --bytes=<BytesPerFile> argument:
b or B, kb or KB, mb or MB, gb or GB.
https://github.com/NeilJustice/FileArb

Usage:
   filearb create-binary-file
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --bytes=<NumberOfBytes>
      [--random-bytes]
   filearb create-text-file
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --lines=<LinesPerFile>
      --characters=<CharactersPerLine>
      [--random-letters]
   filearb create-binary-files
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --directories=<NumberOfDirectories>
      --files=<NumberOfFiles>
      --bytes=<BytesPerFile>
      [--random-bytes]
      [--parallel]
      [--minimal]
   filearb create-text-files
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --directories=<NumberOfDirectories>
      --files=<FilesPerDirectory>
      --lines=<LinesPerFile>
      --characters=<CharactersPerLine>
      [--random-letters]
      [--parallel]
      [--minimal]
```

## FileArb Program Modes

### create-binary-file

```
filearb create-binary-file
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --bytes=<NumberOfBytes>
      [--random-bytes]
```

Program mode `create-binary-file` creates at a specified `--target` directory a file named `binaryfile.bin` containing `--bytes` number of binary 0 bytes.

`create-binary-file` example on Linux:

![create-binary-file example on Linux](Screenshots/Linux/create-binary-file-example.png)

`create-binary-file` example on Windows:

![create-binary-file example on Windows](Screenshots/Windows/CreateBinaryFileConsoleOutput.png)

![create-binary-file Windows Explorer](Screenshots/Windows/CreateBinaryFileWindowsExplorer.png)

![create-binary-file 2GB File Properties](Screenshots/Windows/CreateBinaryFile2GBFileProperties.png)

![Binary file in HxD](Screenshots/Windows/BinaryFileInHxD.png)

`--random-bytes` can be speecified to create a binary file containing random bytes sampled from `std::random_device`.

Resulting binary file from running `filearb create-binary-file --target=C:\FileArbTesting --bytes=64 --random-bytes`:

![Random binary file in HxD](Screenshots/Windows/RandomBinaryFileInHxD.png)

### create-text-file

```
filearb create-text-file
   --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
   --lines=<LinesPerFile>
   --characters=<CharactersPerLine>
   [--random-letters]
```

Program mode `create-text-file` creates at a specified `--target` directory a file containing `--lines` number of lines each containing `--characters` number of `'0'` characters per line or random capital letter characters if `--random-letters` is specified.

`create-text-file` example on Linux:

![create-text-file example on Linux](Screenshots/Linux/create-text-file-example.png)

`create-text-file` example on Windows:

![create-text-file example on Windows](Screenshots/Windows/CreateTextFileExample.png)

### create-binary-files

```
filearb create-binary-files
      --target=<TargetDirectoryPath>
      --directories=<NumberOfDirectories>
      --files=<NumberOfFiles>
      --bytes=<BytesPerFile>
      [--random-bytes]
      [--parallel]
      [--minimal]
```

FileArb program mode `create-binary-files` creates at a specified `--target` directory a specified number of `--directories` each containing a specified number of `--files` each containing `--bytes` number of bytes, either 0 bytes or `[--random-bytes]`.

![create-binary-files](Screenshots/create-binary-files.png)

### create-text-files

FileArb program mode `create-text-files` creates at a specified directory a specified number of subdirectories containing a specified number of text files each containing '0' characters.

![create-text-files](Screenshots/create-text-files.png)

## FileArb Code Structure As It Appears in Visual Studio Code On Linux

![FileArb Code Structure As It Appears In Visual Studio Code](Screenshots/Linux/FileArbCodeStructureAsItAppearsInVisualStudioCode.png)

## FileArb Code Structure As It Appears In Visual Studio 2019 On Windows

Shown is this screenshot is the if-statement in function `FileCreator::WriteFiles` for determining whether to generate files sequentially or in parallel. Shown in the bottom half of the screenshot are corresponding ZenUnit and MetalMock unit tests for function `FileCreator::WriteFiles`.

![FileArb Code Structure As It Appears In Visual Studio 2019](Screenshots/Windows/FileArbCodeStructureAsItAppearsInVisualStudio2019.png)

## Linux Jenkins Jobs Which Build, Cppcheck, clang-tidy, AddressSanitize, UndefinedBehaviorSanitize and ThreadSanitize FileArb's C++ Code and SonarQube Scan FileArb's Python Code

A Jenkins Blue Ocean build pipeline builds the following FileArb Jenkins jobs on Fedora 33 with Clang 11.0.0 and GCC 10.2.1:

![Linux FileArb Jenkins Jobs](Screenshots/Linux/LinuxJenkinsJobs.png)

## Windows Jenkins Jobs Which Build and Cppcheck FileArb's C++ Code and SonarQube Scan FileArb's Python Code

A Jenkins Blue Ocean build pipeline builds the following FileArb Jenkins jobs on Windows 10 with Visual Studio 2019:

![Windows FileArb Jenkins Jobs](Screenshots/Windows/WindowsJenkinsJobs.png)

## How To Build Binary filearb On Linux With Clang

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NeilJustice/FileArb
cd FileArb && mkdir Release && cd Release
CXX=clang++ cmake .. -GNinja -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
sudo cmake --build . --target install
```

Resulting binary `/usr/local/bin/filearb`:

![Resulting binary filearb](Screenshots/Linux/filearbBinaryOnLinux.png)

## How To Build Executable FileArb.exe On Windows With Visual Studio 2019

```powershell
git clone https://github.com/NeilJustice/FileArb
cd FileArb
cmake . -G"Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64 -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=C:\bin
cmake --build . --config Release --target install
```

Resulting executable `C:\bin\FileArb.exe`:

![Resulting executable FileArb.exe](Screenshots/Windows/FileArbDotExe.png)

## FileArb Roadmap

|Future FileArb Feature|Implementation Status As Of 3/15/2021|
|----------------------|------------------------------------|
|GitHub Actions build|Awaiting implementation|
|SonarCloud Python badge for FileArbPyUtils|Awaiting implementation|
|SonarCloud C++ badge|Awaiting implementation|
|Coverity C++ static analysis badge|Awaiting implementation|
|Automated acceptance testing|Awaiting implementation|
